Categories	Original statements (examples)
a1 work requirements	“(We have to) use the technology and software of AI to simulate in the laboratory class before going to practical exercises.” (20CNMEDM)
a2 life application	“It's also in everyday life, I've experienced smart robots delivering food automatically when I stayed in a hotel.” (10CNSCOSM)
a3 AI knowledge learning	“Take classes in machine learning and do research on intelligent semantic recognition.” (17CNPHYM)
a4 AI technology use	“Using Artificial Intelligence to Identify Image Overlaps in Life Sciences and Clinical Areas.” (07CNMEDM)
a5 research need	“Because there are still some problems in our field that have not been solved well by previous algorithms, people may want to use AI to see how it works.” (13CNPHYM)
a6 work need	“Some time ago I had a very urgent work report to write, my friend suggested that I use Baidu's Wenxin Yiyan.” (19CNSOCSF)
a7 entertainment need	“I'll play it when bored, such as Baidu's Wenxin Yiyan.” (14CNPHYM)
a8 availability	“Mentor provided each student with a ChatGPT account and advised us to use AI as a tool.” (18CNSOCSF)
a9 usability	“I have signed up to try it (ChatGPT) and gave up when I didn't understand it.” (22CNMEDM)
a10 wide attention	“We talk a lot about it (ChatGPT).” (05CNPHYM)
a11 positive recommendations	“Mentors are very encouraging of the use of AI.” (09CNSCOSM)
a12 negative resistance	“People around us aren't too fond of it (ChatGPT).” (22CNMEDM)
a13 generate text	“Writing materials with AI and letting chatGPT generate conceptual frameworks.” (15CNPHYM)
a14 generate code	“I will communicate with students in the School of Computer Science and the School of Journalism and Communication, who sometimes use AI to write code, and they think it works pretty well.” (19CNSOCSF)
a15 generate image	“I've heard of design departments where teachers require students to use AIGC to draw their work.” (18CNSOCSF)
a16 embellish content	“ChatGPT can help polish English (papers).” (14CNPHYM)
a17 translation content	“I have used an AI translation tool to translate between Chinese and English in an international conference.” (10CNSOCSM)
a18 analyzing data	“Use AI to process biological information data or create charts and graphs.” (06CNMEDM)
a19 content matching	“I have used AI to match select (Elsevier's journals) when submitting manuscripts.” (03CNPHYM)
a20 content retrieval	“AI can provide a lot of information for teaching.” (21CNMEDM)
a21 content assessment	“(Using AI) Assisting in some of tests and diagnostic work in the clinical.” (13CNPHYM)
a22 work well	“ChatGPT is great at embellishing papers which can make a poor quality paper look good.” (08CNMATHM)
a23 efficient process	”AI improves the efficiency of searching, and advanced searching allows us to find the information we need more precisely.” (06CNMEDM)
a24 multi-dimensional fulfillment	“AI can help with quick recognition, search and translation, which is important to me.” (20CNMEDM)
a25 limited scope	“AI is not well integrated with my current teaching and research.” (09CNSCOSM)
a26 limited professionalism	“It's still not very reliable in specialized areas, and a lot of times deep learning doesn't help my research either.” (16CNPHYM)
a27 limited precision	“I don't recommend relying on such tools for summarization because their summaries may not always be accurate. Many crucial details in research papers are embedded in each sentence.” (12CNMATHM)
a28 limited innovation	“AI is mainly processing the data provided to it by people, and it lacks innovation and thinking.” (06CNMEDM)
a29 doubtful authenticity	“Sometimes AI gives wrong information.” (05CNPHYM)
a30 normative deficiencies	“AI has so much data that some of it may not have been legally identified.” (12CNMATHM)
a31 ethical concern	“There are speculators who use Chatgpt to generate papers and even get them published.” (03CNPHYM)
a32 publishing growth	“It's fast to write papers with the help of AI. There is a journal in our field whose review speed was about two or three months, but the last time I submitted a manuscript to that journal, after a week, the editorial board hadn't even read yet.” (13CNPHYM)
a33 excessive dependence	“AI has evolved to the point where it can completely replace researchers to do simple written work, material work, and the basic skills of researchers may not be as solid as they should be.” (04CNPHYM)
a34 competition intensifies	“A large number of repetitive and simple work, writing or coding, will be replaced, and in the future, people can not find a job, they will be replaced.” (14CNPHYM)
a35 enhancing inequality	“Now that ChatGPT has started charging for its use and will predictably slowly increase its usage fees, which will lead to inequality of resources.” (11CNSOCSF)
a36 active pursuit of use	“AI is definitely the way to go, and it can help humans do things they can't do.” (16CNPHYM)
a37 passive acceptance of use	“If you don't use it, you'll be out of business, so you have to.” (15CNPHYM)
a38 sharpen existing uses	“ChatGPT is a chat robot, the key is how to "train" it and how to ask the right questions.” (04CNPHYM )
a39 developing new uses	“AI can be used to calculate the pass rate of reviewers and analyze the articles they pass, thus forming an algorithm to measure the level of reviewers' performance.” (07CNMEDM)
a40 technical security	“AI is a technological tool that needs to comply with the law, ethics. Actually, there are already some issues that are being blocked now.” (21CNMEDM)
a41 policy control	“I believe that the state will introduce policies to solve these problems, such as using ChatGPT to write papers and other academic frauds.” (02CNPHYM)
